Add PaintSweepGradient (#217)
googlefonts/colr-gradients-spec: OFF_AMD2_WD.md

**5.7.11.1.2 Gradients**

COLR version 1 supports three types of gradients: linear gradients, radial

> gradients, and sweep gradients. Each type of gradient are defined using a color

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gradients, and sweep gradients. Each type of gradient is defined using a color
```

or "All types of gradients are..."

repetitions, use the result as the maximum stop offset for specified color
stops, and set the extend mode to *reflect*.

NOTE: While color stops can be defined for stop offsets outside the range [0, 1]
and the color line is extended indefinitely in either direction, for a sweep
gradient, only color values within the range [0, 1] are used. The extend mode is
relevant for a sweep gradient only if color stops are defined for a sub-range

> smaller than [0, 1] and the extend mode is needed to fill in values for the

Reviewer 2: @drott is that true? - I have hazy memory of discussion of it being fine to use values outside [0, 1]

Author: The color line can be defined with stops outside [0,1]; this is called out:

>The color line may be defined using color stops outside the range [0, 1], but
only color values in the range [0, 1] are used.

Reviewer: Yes. Maybe to make it clearer, we can say

> for a sweep gradient, only color values within the range [0, 1] are painted.

Reviewer: On the other hand, reading below, this is a bit repetitive when adding it to the Color Line section. I'd be in favour of only talking about the [0, 1] mapping in the Sweep gradient definition and dropping it here (or there), but only keep one note about the [0, 1] restricted mapping for sweep gradients.

some variable font instances), and should not rely on these display artifacts to
obtain a particular pattern.

**5.7.11.1.2.4 Sweep gradients**

A sweep gradient provides a gradation of colors that sweep around a center point. For a given color on a color line, that color projects as a ray from the center point in a given direction. This is illustrated in figure 5.x.

NOTE: The following figures illustrate conic gradients clipped to a circular region. Conic gradients are not bounded, however, and fill the entire space.

![A conic gradient](images/colr_conic_gradient.png)

**Figure 5.x Conic gradient**

NOTE: In some contexts, this type of gradient is referred to as a “conic” gradient.

A sweep gradient is defined by a center point, starting and ending angles, and a color line. The angles are expressed in counter-clockwise degrees from the direction of the y-axis on the design grid.

> The color line is aligned to a circular path around the center point, with arbitrary radius, with stop offset 0 aligned with the starting angle, and stop offset 1 aligned with the ending angle. The color line progresses in the counter-clockwise direction; for example, if the start and stop angles are both 0°, then stop offset 0.1 is at 36° counter-clockwise from the direction of the y-axis. The color line may be defined using color stops outside the range [0, 1], but only color values in the range [0, 1] are used. In a conic gradient, the extend mode specified for the color line is ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The color line is aligned to an arc around the center point, with arbitrary radius, with stop offset 0 aligned with the starting angle, and stop offset 1 aligned with the ending angle. The color line progresses in the counter-clockwise direction; for example, if the start and stop angles are both 0°, then stop offset 0.1 is at 36° counter-clockwise from the direction of the y-axis. The color line may be defined using color stops outside the range [0, 1], but only color values in the range [0, 1] are used. In a conic gradient, the extend mode specified for the color line is ignored.
```

some variable font instances), and should not rely on these display artifacts to
obtain a particular pattern.

**5.7.11.1.2.4 Sweep gradients**

A sweep gradient provides a gradation of colors that sweep around a center
point. For a given color on a color line, that color projects as a ray from the
center point in a given direction. This is illustrated in figure 5.29.

NOTE: The following figures illustrate sweep gradients clipped to a circular
region. Sweep gradients are not bounded, however, and fill the entire space.

> ![A sweep gradient](images/colr_conic_gradient.png)

Reviewer: Thank you for creating these example images and explaining these details. Minor comment in this regard: How about using as much as possible the same "tonality" / color values as in the other examples? Here, the colour look more like saturated RGB primary colors, in the other example images we used the slightly toned, slightly desaturated colours.

paint table that is used as the fill for the shape. The glyph outline is not
rendered; only the fill is rendered.

Any of the basic fill formats—PaintSolid, PaintLinearGradient,
PaintRadialGradient, or PaintSweepGradient—can be used as the child paint table.
This is illustrated in figure 5.33: a PaintGlyph table has a glyph ID for an
outline in the shape of a triangle, and it links to a child PaintLinearGradient
table. The combination is used to represent a triangle filled with the linear

> gradient.

Reviewer 2: I worry this language [both before and after this edit] implies *only* the basic formats can be used when in fact there is no such limitation.

Author: The paragraph after the explains how the child is not limited to only the basic formats. But that could be spelled out more clearly.

Author: Actually, the paragraph does spell that out, but re-ordered of the statements would probably help.

paint table that is used as the fill for the shape. The glyph outline is not
rendered; only the fill is rendered.

Any of the basic fill formats—PaintSolid, PaintLinearGradient,
PaintRadialGradient, or PaintSweepGradient—can be used as the child paint table.
This is illustrated in figure 5.33: a PaintGlyph table has a glyph ID for an
outline in the shape of a triangle, and it links to a child PaintLinearGradient
table. The combination is used to represent a triangle filled with the linear
gradient.

![PaintGlyph and PaintLinearGradient tables are used to fill a triangle shape with a linear gradient.](images/colr_shape_gradient.png)

**Figure 5.33 PaintGlyph and PaintLinearGradient tables used to fill a shape with a linear gradient.**

The child of a PaintGlyph table is not, however, limited to one of the basic
fill formats. Rather, the child can be the root of a sub-graph that describes
some graphic composition that is used as a fill. Another way to describe the
relationship between a PaintGlyph table and its child sub-graph is that the
glyph outline specified by the PaintGlyph table defines a bounds, or *clip

> region*, that is applied to the fill composition defined by the child sub-graph.

Reviewer: Could you explain why this change is here? It looks unrelated to PaintSweepGradient to me and thus I'd prefer to have that in a separate pull request.

Author: It's here because Rod commented on that in this PR. But I can move it to a different PR.

    if format 3: // PaintLinearGradient
    or if format 4: // PaintRadialGradient
    or if format 5: // PaintSweepGradient
        paint the gradient onto the surface following the gradient algorithm

    if format 6: // PaintGlyph
        apply the outline of the referenced glyph to the clip region
            // take the intersection of clip regions—see 5.7.11.1.3
        call renderPaint() passing the child paint table
        restore the previous clip region

    if format 7: // PaintColrGlyph
        call renderPaint() passing the paint table referenced by the base glyph ID

    if format 8: // PaintTransformed
    or if format 9: // PaintTranslate
    or if format 10: // PaintRotate

>     or if format 11: // PaintSkew

Reviewer 2: (Optional) for pseudocode I think if format in 8, 9, 10, 11 might be ok

Author: Revised
